(door clanging)
Double-double,
no cheese, grilled onions,
fries and a shake.
That's a hell of
a last supper.
Well, Bledsoe,
when it's your turn,
you'll get to pick.
(door shuts)
There a problem?
There's no ketchup.
They always forget the ketchup.
I'll see what
I can do, John.
(phone line ringing,
clock ticking)
MAN:
FBI, Los Angeles.
Yes, my name
is Dr. Henry Stanley.
I'm a psychiatrist
in Los Angeles.
I have important information.
I believe John Curtis
may be innocent.
(whistle blowing)
Good energy, nice hustle!
Is this tie
really necessary?
All aspects of the
game are controlled
by forces: look
sharp, play sharp.
How about this annoying
athletic supporter?
That's for the
players, Larry.
Oh.
(blowing whistle)
All right,
keep it going!
I want to see
you sweat!
Just relax, now.
What's the worst
that can happen?
We lose for the
ten-to-the-23rd time?
It's not losing
that worries me.
- It's just...
- What?
Nice form, Peter.
I think there's something
I need to show you.
A cautionary tale
about my coaching.
In the interest of all candor...
CHARLIE:
Oh, you never told me
you coached collegiate
basketball before.
Well, it was
intramural league.
They did let us play in
the gym here for the finals.
- What?!
- How'd that go?
Are you nuts?!
Uh... they called
the game early
for a science fair.
Yeah, elementary
schoolkids
and their damn dreams.
Are you nuts?!
You're out of your head!
(enraged screaming)
- What are you staring at?!
- Ay.
Guess I won't be leaving
you alone out there.
(buzzer sounds)
Come on in, guys.
All right, gentlemen...
the journey
of a thousand miles
starts with one breath.
If you meet the
Buddha in the lane,
feed him the ball.
Never forget,
you can't step
in the same river twice.
- Pete.
- Coach,
what the hell are
you talking about?
LARRY: I think what Coach Eppes
is trying to say is we all learn
to write in the second grade,
but most of us go on
to do greater things,
so get the hell out
there and decide
if you want to matriculate
or be left behind.
(team shouting)
Get out of here!
Come on!
Phil Jackson?
Bobby Knight.
What are you talking about? That
was cheap.
I just... I'm saying it was
cheap.
I disagree.
12% is fine--
that food was terrible.
Okay, well, you don't
blame the waiter.
You get mad
at the chef.
Yeah, but he's got
all those knives back there
and my gun's in the car.
(phone ringing)
Oh.
Yeah, Eppes.
Did you check
his credentials?
(whispering):
It's the Curtis case.
That happens
every time
a convict's about to get
executed.
Uh-huh.
Evidence surfaces
at the eleventh hour
that's going to exonerate
him, but it never does.
All right,
put him through.
Yeah, this is Don Eppes.
DR. STANLEY: I want you to know
I would not be making this call
if I did not believe
in the validity
of what I'm about to tell you.
(rattling)
I have compelling reason to
believe John Curtis is innocent.
All right, Doctor.
Doctor, my ass.
50 bucks says
Curtis hired him.
(receiver clicks)
Hello?
Hello, Dr. Stanley?
He's gone.
Yeah, he probably
got cold feet
when he heard
your voice.
John Curtis killed Roger Webster
four years ago.
I helped to write his obit,
and I'm looking forward
to reading Curtis's in the
morning.
Yeah, but
the guy's got a few hours
to live, right?
Well, it's going
to take a lot more
than a prank call to
set that guy free.
(phone line ringing)
Hey, David,
I need you to follow up
on a call
that just came through.
DAVID: So, uh, Attila the Hun or
Genghis Khan?
NIKKI:
I don't understand.
DAVID: It's a game that me and
Granger play.
If you can go back in time,
kill any bad guy you want,
- who would you take out?
- (sighs) Both.
No, but you only
have one bullet.
Yeah, but I got a time
machine, right?
So I can just
go back and forth,
you know, reload-- bop,
bop-- ghost 'em both.
(sighs)
I cannot wait for Granger
to get back
from his fishing trip.
(scoffs)
It's a stupid game.
(glass shards crunching)
This blood's
still flowing.
This just happened.
Calling it in.
(cell phone beeping)
Uh, rescue unit
to 10060 Beverly Drive.
(clattering)
Multiple
gunshot wounds.
Victim is critical.
Damn it.
(tires screeching)
Whoa.
(automatic gunfire)
(gun firing)
(automatic gunfire resumes)
(tires screeching)
(garbled radio transmission)
ROBIN:
I'll catch up.
- You okay?
- DAVID: Yeah.
Opened up on me from over there.
Engine block saved my life.
- And the shrink?
- He was pronounced
dead on the ride
to the hospital.
Anything with
the security cameras?
Back of a guy's head.
DOT has nothing else
looking this way.
Okay, a psychiatrist calls
to reveal a secret
that might set
a killer free,
but before he can,
he's shot to death.
Yeah, I think I saw that movie.
Yeah, how did it end?
This guy gets off
of death row, right,
and he goes on this
killing spree.
Right, I'll go look
for tire tracks.
(sighs)
DON: Liz, what have we got?
Uh, killer definitely
wasn't a junkie.
I can tell you that much--
left the meds
and the script pads.
Must have cleaned
the desk off
'cause there's no
appointment book,
no laptop,
and techs say oil residue
and smudge marks
indicate files and papers
were taken.
- You call the hospital?
- They sent over
a partial list of patients.
Doc also worked pro bono
for the city
and saw a lot of ex-cons,
so I'm waiting on that list.
Tell Nikki to call
if the DA drags his feet here,
'cause we don't got
a lot of time.
What have you got here?
Forensics is trying to
pull hidden information
off these blank sheets
of paper we found
- on the doctor's desk.
- What, this is the thing
the lab rats
have been bragging about?
A molecule
attaches itself
to the ink of the
underlying paper,
and then I guess a bunch
of other molecules
come join the party.
What does it tell us?
Okay, the papers that
were stolen were lying
on top of this pad
and left
traces of ink
that we can't see
embedded in the fibers.
Sounds more like
Charlie's world to me.
Exactly.
ROBIN:
John Curtis.
Top of the LA food chain.
Ran his own crime family.
Never got
his hands dirty...
till he decided
to put a bullet
through Roger Webster's head.
Seen around town:
best restaurants, fancy cars.
Claimed to be a contractor
making 150 grand a year.
Boss didn't like
being shown up.
Made it a point
to go after him.
And then, he went
after one of yours.
Curtis killed Webster.
We had wiretaps on him 24-7,
froze his bank accounts.
Finally, he cracked,
made a full confession.
- Really?
- Yeah.
LAPD had a stiff hand in it,
but they got the job done.
It says he never
asked for an appeal?
Bunch of human rights groups
did it for him.
Curtis bragged
about killing Webster.
There's no way
this guy is innocent.
The shrink died
for a reason.
What, all of a sudden, you
don't want to work late?
Well, only when it's a waste
of my time.
LIZ:
Sorry to pull you
- off the court.
- CHARLIE: Oh, it's okay.
Tip-off's not
for a few more minutes.
Techs could only get so far.
Well, I can put the number 13
on my T-shirt.
Doesn't make me Steve Nash.
- Basketball analogy.
- I get it.
I can clean this up--
it's just a question
of Gaussian filtering and OCR.
All right, Coach.
Let's hear the play.
Okay, imagine a rainbow
which is formed
when a beam of white light
passes through drops
of rainwater in the air
and is refracted or bent.
Each color is separated
into its components,
but when the moisture
evaporates,
so does the rainbow.
My algorithm acts
like the raindrops
by separating the ink
on this paper
into its various components--
or shades of gray.
Now, I can get going on this
right after the game.
John Curtis is going
to be executed at midnight.
This might help prove
his innocence.
Or I, uh...
I can do it now.
ALAN:
Hey, sorry I'm late.
I just got the scouting report
on our opponent's team.
Now, the good news is,
they're the worst team
in their conference.
And... and the bad
news is that, uh,
compared to us,
they're, uh, great.
Uh...
what are you doing now?
Gaussian filtering.
What play is that?
It's kind of like a rainbow.
- Rainbow?
- Mm-hmm.
Oh... oh, you mean
the rainbow jumper?
Larry Bird
used to shoot that way.
Hey, listen, don't leave
Larry alone out there.
All right.
I don't think I've ever
seen you like this.
Oh, please, you've
killed more people
in the line of duty
than Wyatt Earp.
Yeah, well, that's
a little different.
How you doing?
Oh, what, so it's okay
for you to decide,
but not for 12 of your peers?
What are you talking about?
Robin, I had no choice.
"Choice" is the operative
word here-- I had to.
So, Don Eppes knows better
than everyone else?
No, look, one
is to save a life.
The other is, uh...
it's state-sponsored
revenge.
Good Book says, "An
eye for an eye."
Ask your rabbi
about that one.
Well, it's funny--
I actually did.
You know, there's
a misconception about that.
It was about money;
it wasn't about punishment.
I mean, I can have a car
take you home, if you want.
(alarm blaring)
Man, I'm not carrying anything.
Hey, don't
touch me, man.
- We got a problem here?
- Do we...
- Hey.
- Get your hands off me, man!
(grunting)
I'm cool.
You don't seem very cool.
Check this
out for me.
You got anything
on you?
- No.
- Really?
Julien Curtis.
John's son-- he doesn't
have a record.
Yet.
I'm here to say good-bye
to my dad, okay?
I'm not carrying.
All right, relax.
I got three inches
of a knife blade in me.
When I was 12,
a drug dealer came looking
for my old man,
and I didn't give him up.
DON:
All right, fine.
Just take it easy.
(whistle blows)
(cheering)
Hands up! Hands up!
LARRY: Stop him now! Stop him!
There you go!
LARRY:
Oh, no, no, no, no, no!
Match up defense.
CHARLIE: The computer's
processing my algorithm,
but I've noticed
our model for the defense
based on the Speedsters'
strength just isn't working,
so I'm thinking
we have corrupt data, Lawrence.
I don't think it's
the data, Charles.
All right, we got it...
We just need
to give it some more time.
The match up defense works.
Uh, apparently not too well.
While I agree we are presently
getting our asteroids kicked,
I think if you were here,
you'd see that-that panic
is not the right course
of action!
Oh, come on!
Come on! Come on!
Come on! Come on! Come on!
Get back down here!
Larry, I-I need to call Liz.
I'll be there in five.
(Larry groans)
(beep)
NIKKI: There were no witnesses
to Roger Webster's murder.
Forensics found skin
under his nails that
didn't match Curtis's.
Samples of blood
were A-positive.
Curtis was O.
According to this,
eyewitnesses disagreed
on the color of the car
seen near the reservoir
where Webster's
body was found.
One saw a black Rover,
one saw a navy Rover.
And which color was Curtis's?
He drove a green Escalade.
So how did they convict
this guy?
His confession.
Webster was coming
out of work late.
I waited in the garage.
Oh, by the way,
your security over there sucks.
Anyway, I took him at gunpoint
up to the Hollywood Reservoir.
But you know that.
That's where you found the body.
When we got up there,
I shot him in the back
of the head.
He fell out of the car
onto the ground.
He was still breathing, so I...
I kicked him in the head
to keep him quiet.
After that,
he was pretty much dead.
NIKKI: Okay, I would have voted
guilty, too.
It could be a 51-50?
No, the shrink okayed him.
He's right as rain.
Yeah, still,
with no real hard evidence
linking Curtis
to the crime scene,
if he didn't confess,
he would have walked.
Yeah.
LARRY:
Get the ball and shut up... now!
Man open! Man open!
(yells)
All right, easy.
ALAN: Easy easy.
Defense, defense.
Remember de...?
Pick him up! Pick him up! Ooh.
Hey, Ref, call it
both ways, Zebra!
What are you having,
an ocular eclipse?
CHARLIE: Take it
easy, Larry.
- Come on!
- Fill the lane! Fill the lane!
You know what? Time out, Ref.
(blows whistle)
Time out!
Cal Sci.
Come on, get in here, guys.
All right,
now listen to me.
We're still in this thing.
We just need
to stick to the math.
Now, Pete, the angle
of your jump shot
is off the optimal
trajectory,
so I need you to work on that,
and J.J., man,
you're running the isosceles
set way too high.
So, focus for me, all right?
Now, get out there!
(whistle blows)
Let's go! (sighs)
Blue Eagle Motion
with relativity.
Uh, no, no.
3-2 pi motion.
No. They will
expect that.
How can they expect it?
We just made it up.
ALAN: Would you call something
already?
Blue Eagle, uh,
uh, whatever.
Bad time?
Yeah. Uh, no. Here.
This is as much
as I could do.
All the information's there.
You just need to sort
through it, all right?
Now, show
some hustle.
Grab the rebound! Ooh!
MAN:
Nice legs, Counselor.
Want to come
check out my briefs?
(chuckles)
Don't. It only encourages them.
You're not used
to this, are you?
I can handle it.
(buzzer sounds)
Agent Eppes.
Miss Brooks.
Welcome.
DON: So, a man called me
tonight.
Told me he could prove
you were innocent.
And you believe him?
Well, he died
before I could find out.
But your gut tells you
otherwise.
Your confession
told me otherwise.
(sighs)
U.S. Attorney's office.
I get it.
You and Webster.
Long lunches at the Biltmore.
The more you talk,
the closer to death you get.
You know what four years
of solitary teaches a man?
What's that?
There are things
far worse than death.
So, this guy's name
was Dr. Henry Stanley.
Means nothing to me.
Would you like me
to tell you again?
Maybe I can clear
your conscience?
I did it.
I killed Webster.
Quicker 12:01
comes, the better.
I agree.
I regret nothing.
I went home, took a bath
and had a nice meal.
There's something about
this confession...
The results
of the tire tracks
from outside Stanley's
office came back.
Get a load of this.
That matches
a Dodge Charger, '09,
just like you drive.
I have an alibi.
I was with you.
You see,
here-here's where Granger
would say something like,
"Well, don't count on me
testifying for you in court."
You talk about him a lot.
Don't you have a girl you should
be talking about instead?
Hey, thing is, this car--
weight distribution,
axle differential--
it really is a police model.
You're saying a cop shot at me?
No. I'm saying a cop was there
and left in a hurry.
Hey, you guys.
How was the game?
As good as they are at math,
that's how bad Larry
and Charlie are at hoops.
(computer trills)
LIZ: So, Charlie was able to
decipher it,
but what a mess, huh?
Some of these look like notes.
Could be patient names.
It's gonna take a while to
untangle them and run them all.
"A while" is a luxury
Curtis does not have.
LARRY:
Get the ball!
All right, pack
line defense.
- Oh!
- Hey!
(whistle blows)
Ref, that was flagrant.
(blows whistle)
Get off the court, or I'm
giving you a technical.
You are as dense
as a black hole.
What did you call me?
Your gravitational field
is so dense,
electromagnetic radiation
could not possibly escape.
(blows whistle)
(groans)
Technical.
Cal Sci coach.
- What did I say?
- Calm down.
All I did was call
him a black hole.
You called him a black hole?
I thought
doctors played golf all day.
This shrink must have seen
about 50 clients a week.
All right, next.
Uh, Steve Olin.
(typing)
(computer trills)
Ooh.
Not unless being ugly's
a crime.
(laughs)
Next.
Uh, John Rho.
(typing)
How come everyone in LA
sees a shrink?
Ever try finding a parking spot
at lunchtime?
Good point.
Okay, Charles Rollins.
(typing)
LIZ:
Hmm.
Things just got
more interesting.
Our doctor had
an appointment
with Rollins the day he died.
NIKKI:
Yeah. Assault, assault, assault.
Manslaughter.
Finally. How?
Shot a man to death.
Says he was released last week.
Hey, what's that next
to Rollins' name up there?
Uh, Danny Hill.
(typing)
Hey that's not on
the client list.
(sighs)
Hey, check this out.
Arresting detective
in the Curtis case
was Danielle Hill.
(typing)
Maybe she was the one outside
the shrink's office.
Stanley wanted to talk
to her about something.
Let's find out what.
That's Tony Wolf,
Curtis's attorney.
Hey, Tony.
How you doing?
(mutters)
- Ooh.
- Look, if Curtis is working
some angle here,
I want to know about it.
Look, I didn't ask
to come here, all right?
And yet, here you are.
Anti-capital punishment
groups...
looking for that
last-minute reprieve.
Put me on
retainer years ago.
I should have said no
years ago, but, you know.
DON:
And give up
all those appeals,
all that money?
(chuckles) Not enough for having
to deal with Curtis.
I interviewed
his family once
without his permission.
I found a bullet in my mailbox
the next day.
ROBIN:
Okay, look, I'm not
asking you to break
any client-attorney oath,
but did Curtis ever give you
any reason
to believe that he was innocent?
Screw the oath.
Curtis is a killer, all right?
He told me
about stuff he did.
One time he put
an ice pick through a guy's...
Yeah. Everybody's better
with him gone.
He did kill Roger?
Well, you were there.
He confessed, right?
Textbook.
(crowd chatter)
(hip-hop plays)
* I told 'em...
we was gettin' out *
* Yeah, we be
riding and rolling *
* Oh, baby, just got paid
* Stand by
for the rolling roll *
* Rolling in the USA
* Ooh, yeah,
who cares where I'm going? *
*
* Stand by
for the rolling roll *
* Rolling in the USA
* Woke up, stretched
this morning like yeah, man *
* Two-seater looking sleeker
than an airplane *
* If you roll you roll,
and I don't care, man *
*
* Ooh, yeah,
who cares where I'm going? *
*
CHARLIE:
Swing around!
(cheering)
CHARLIE: Call the double team.
Is this the defense?
Watch the elbow.
That's an elbow, Ref.
- Charlie, I want to...
- No, not now.
Hey, hands up!
Terry? Terry,
increase your volume.
Curtis's confession, okay--
it could prove his innocence,
but FBI techs, they can't
make heads or tails of it.
Okay, that's because your techs
are analyzing his confession
for stress points
and inconsistencies.
Hey, how many steps
you going to allow him?
Five? Six?
N plus three?
Okay. All right, and-and
they should be doing what?
The key is to compare
Curtis's statement
against other auditory
examples from his past
to look for irregularities
in the speech pattern.
That's a pentagon,
and I'm asking for an
equilateral triangle.
Imagine I'm a basketball player?
All right. All right.
In order for a shooter
to have an effective jump shot,
you need three elements
to work as one--
his arm needs to be
in an L position,
his knees must bend,
and the shooter's hand
has to follow through.
All these components combine
to put the proper arc
and rotation on the ball,
ensuring it'll go through
the net if done correctly.
But it one part fails,
the shot does, too.
In a similar fashion,
our voice is made up
of three
essential parts--
cognitive, emotional
and physiological.
When we tell the truth,
they work in harmony,
but when we lie...
- They break down.
- Exactly.
I won't be able to determine
with 100% accuracy,
but I should be able to
pinpoint irregularities
in Curtis's speech pattern,
if they exist.
- Thanks.
- Hey!
D up, Wang.
(panting)
(grunting)
Ah...
genuine imitation Gucci shoes
walking.
Must be the marshals.
FBI. But nice outfit.
Hey, I remember
when I wasn't
allowed to dress myself either.
- That's funny.
- LIZ: So, you made a case
against John Curtis
four years ago.
I'm looking forward to tonight.
Is that why you guys are here?
Oh, brother.
Don't tell me,
now that it's
dying time, he's saying I forced
his confession.
Tire tracks.
Dodge Charger,
just like the model you drive.
Yeah, we found
them outside
of Dr. Henry Stanley's office
earlier.
Don't you guys have
the same ride?
LIZ: Our name
wasn't listed
on a dead doctor's legal pad
next to an ex-con named Rollins.
Circled.
Mm... I was after him.
Who?
Big Chucky Rollins.
I just put that fat slob away
and the judge overturned
his conviction two weeks ago.
LIZ:
What'd the doc want with you?
Chucky was probably
complaining about me.
I've been all over his ass
since he got out of prison.
Any idea where we can find him?
McDonald's, Burger
King, a trough.
I swear, that guy can't go
an hour without eating.
LAPD got a tip Big Chucky's
been crashing here.
This guy must be
350 pounds soaking wet.
Hard to believe he could
fall off anyone's radar.
Yeah.
(giggles)
Oh, yeah.
Ooh...
FBI.
Hands where I can see 'em.
I want to see some hands.
(women gasping)
Come and get me.
Listen, big guy, don't make
me shoot you, okay?
You can't shoot me, I'm unarmed.
Good point.
Cover me.
(growls)
(grunting)
(chuckling):
Bring on the pain.
Not so tough now, are you?
I went to see the talking
doc like I'm supposed to--
part of my parole agreement.
And when you left him?
He was most
definitely alive.
You were the last patient
he saw today.
Marge Simpson, let's get
something straight.
I was there to save a life,
not take one.
What are you talking about?
John Curtis didn't kill
no lawyer.
I was with him that night.
That's a little
convenient--
you coming in
at the bottom of the ninth.
Where were you
at his trial?
Boss told me to
get, so I did.
He told you to let him dangle?
Oh, Chucky, you're full of it.
You know what Curtis
is capable of?
You don't question
his orders.
The man was not within a mile
of that lawyer that night.
I can't figure
this out.
I say scam.
Curtis pulls
a murder,
knows he's going
to get caught eventually,
so he confesses,
does four years,
and now he's planning
on skating.
Small price to pay
for killing a man.
That's a pretty
shaky game plan.
Big Chucky can sign a sworn
statement, pass a polygraph,
but as long as Curtis sticks
to his confession,
no judge is going to give
a stay of execution.
So do you think
his confession's legit?
I think we have a murder
to solve-- Stanley's--
and if the key to that is
Curtis's confession,
then we have to keep on digging.
(cheering and applause)
LARRY:
Stop that guy.
(exasperated laugh)
(buzzer sounds)
Oh, hey, hey, guys,
hey, smile, smile.
It's going to be all right.
Hey, Larry, I'm sorry.
It's just this case.
No, listen, a man's life
hangs in the balance,
and this was all just
an experiment of sorts.
Well, thank you
for understanding.
Um, listen, I know things
are rough out there,
but I think in the second half,
we have a real good shot.
- I mean, we just got to...
- Okay, sounds good.
- Where are you going?
- Well,
in the words
of Douglas MacArthur...
- You shall return?
- ...Americans never quit.
That's not
helpful.
(speed-dials cell phone)
Larry's never
abandoned me before.
Well, you did leave him first,
you know.
Um, so, so, what now?
I got to get back to my office.
Wait a minute.
Who's going to coach the team,
Charlie?
Nuh-uh. No.
An innocent man may die tonight
unless you blow this whistle.
(sighs)
(blows whistle)
Okay, uh... who
among you is familiar
with the old
Indiana weave?
All right,
so what am I looking at here?
CHARLIE:
All right, see those wavy lines?
They indicate Curtis's
habitual speech pattern.
Okay, so they're
all over the place.
Meaning that he wasn't
completely honest
in his confession.
What, like it was forced?
Not necessarily.
You see, these emotive factors
are more indicative
of someone under duress.
Like someone was beating him
- with a phone book?
- No, no,
if that were the case, there'd
be more internal pressure.
Fear or anger would show up
on my results.
All right.
Thanks, Charlie.
So?
Well, I mean, you're
not going to like this,
but he says the
confession is bull.
Your brother doesn't use
the word "bull."
You're right, he
was rambling on
about emotive factors
or something,
but that was the gist of it.
He can prove this?
Mathematically.
I mean, is that
good enough for you?
Forget me. How about
the Supreme Court, Don?
Robin, look,
it says right here the guy
was convicted on partial DNA.
I was there, and with his
confession, it became 100%.
If the confession is a lie...
You're going
to need
a lot more than the genius
of Charlie Eppes
to set this guy free.
You're going
to need hard evidence.
You're that convinced
that he's guilty?
that he's innocent?
How many times do I have
to tell you I killed the man?
DON: What, you
couldn't
put up with the nightmares
all of a sudden?
I couldn't deal
with Webster's son
on TV, begging for someone
to find his father.
DON: And that's enough
for you to give up
the whole life--
the babes, the cars, all that?
You ever see
a James Cagney movie
where he plays
an old gangster?
You know why?
There's no such thing.
If I would've kept
going at the rate
I was going,
I would have
ended up in the street dead
somewhere.
I've heard enough.
Hey, Brooks, Brooks.
Come here.
I want to tell you something
about your friend Webster.
You know, he died screaming
and begging for his life,
and that's an image
I cannot silence in my head.
- Robin, come on.
- No matter how hard I try.
You know, the drugs
don't always work.
- Robin.
- They say it feels like
- you're suffocating.
- Let's go.
I hope you suffer,
you son of a bitch.
Come on.
ROBIN:
I can't believe
that you're fighting
to keep this guy alive.
You want
to know why?
I'll tell you.
The first time I killed a man,
I became
a very different person, okay?
I was working fugitives.
This lifer goes over the wall,
kills a mother of three,
steals her car.
We get a drop
on the location
and we kick in the door,
and the guy grabs a gun,
some hooker he's with.
I was fourth
in line.
Everyone else there had
enough experience to hesitate.
I put two rounds
right in the guy's head.
This where the value
of life comes in?
That was the moment I knew
this was what I was meant to do,
but I also knew
that if I were ever wrong,
I'd probably blow
my own brains out.
You really don't feel right
about Curtis?
I don't have my finger
on the trigger here.
All right, we can do it now,
we can do it now.
Keep the
ball moving.
- That's it!
- Hey, I don't
recognize that
as one of our plays.
Because it's not;
it's called the weave.
Same way CCNY won the NCAA
and the NIT titles
in the same year.
- Didn't they cheat?
- Yeah, but they played hard.
ALAN: I mean, blood and sweat
can't be replaced
by, uh, statistics
and, and...
- Bisects.
- Bisects, exactly.
Bisects.
Don't feel too badly;
we're still going to lose.
- Come on, you guys!
- It's not the losing.
It's the fact that
an innocent man could be put
to death in 90 minutes.
I said
stand your ground!
(whistle blows)
I have to go.
I should have seen that coming.
What the hell do you think
you're doing?
My job.
Guy's killed ten people,
probably more,
we never had enough evidence
to convict him on.
This time we did.
(sighs) Listen, that might be
the way you interpret the rules.
That doesn't work for me.
Oh, brother,
Roger was like you.
By the book, always thinking
everyone had a good side.
The two of you.
We were both married
at the time.
I could never tell
anyone.
I couldn't even go
to his funeral.
His wife was
suspicious enough already.
So this is a little
bit more than personal.
You married?
Yeah, so you don't know.
Curtis is dying tonight,
and there's nothing
you or anyone else
can do about it.
So anyway, buddy,
I'm just calling
to make sure everything is cool.
All right,
give me a call when you can.
Is that Colby?
No.
Wait, did you just
call him "baby"?
I said "buddy,"
all right?
I was just calling to
update him on the case.
Is that okay?
Maybe you should try
JDate or something.
Is there a purpose
for you coming over here?
Charlie got the results.
CHARLIE: These are the photos
of Roger Webster
after he was found at the bottom
of the Hollywood Reservoir.
You'll notice the weights
to prevent his body from moving.
Well, this isn't
exactly new, Charlie.
All right, well, here are images
of the footprints...
DAVID: That the FBI concluded
belonged to the killer.
- Exactly.
- And this helps us...?
It helps us because by looking
at the various imprints and the
resting spot of Webster's body,
I can determine the height
and weight of the killer--
well over six feet, 200 pounds.
Which is nowhere close in size
to Curtis's frame.
DON:
So what's that?
That's the depth of
the left print,
which indicates the killer
highly favored his left side.
DON:
What, like he compensated?
Yeah, my best guess is
some kind of trauma
to his hand or his arm.
I got three inches
of a knife blade in me.
Or shoulder.
LAPD kicked in
Julien's door.
Place was
completely empty.
"Leaving town" empty?
He must have figured
we were on to him.
No offense,
but the governor's still going
to need more than a scar
and Don's gut.
LIZ: Whoa, whoa, whoa, what
about
a phone bill and Don's gut?
Check this out.
Julien's phone records
next to his father's.
NIKKI:
Calls his dad every night.
Talks for a minimum
of five minutes.
Except for on the 22nd.
They talked for 15 seconds.
That's the night
that Webster was killed.
Wait, look
at the time.
Webster's approximate
time of death was 10:50.
This call was ten minutes later.
NIKKI:
Closest cell tower
puts Julien near
Hollywood Reservoir.
Maybe he called
to brag to Daddy.
But Daddy was smart enough
to get him off the line.
And then,
he takes the hit
for the kid,
confesses so his son
doesn't have to go to the chair.
That's some kind
of family love.
Calling the governor's office.
Why don't you let me
die in peace?
Human DNA has 48 markers.
The blood on Webster
matched 24 of yours.
You done?
No, you see, a child
has exactly half
the same DNA as
their parent.
It was your kid who killed him.
You got nothing.
So, Angels With
Dirty Faces?
Cagney goes yelling to the chair
to prove a point
to the kids, right?
You know...
I watched my father
get gunned down
right in front of me.
I couldn't even go
to his funeral and cry.
You know why?
Because I was too busy
fighting off three families
that wanted to destroy mine.
My grandfather shot
a police captain in the head
during his promotion ceremony
in front of 200 officers.
Now, that's what it means
to be a Curtis.
And Julien...
...he's no Curtis.
Oh, so this is your
way of protecting him?
Sixty-four.
I've got 64 bodies on my hands,
and tonight, it all ends.
Now, if you
don't mind,
I'd like to be alone.
Any word from the governor?
His man's reviewing
the evidence,
but ballistics came
back on the gun
that was used to
kill the shrink.
It was used in a triple
murder five years ago.
NIKKI: Oh, that's Che Ray--
I remember him.
Real nasty dude.
Used to shoot at cops.
LIZ:
They recovered the gun.
Put into LAPD evidence,
never destroyed.
(typing)
LIZ:
Arresting officer...
was Danny Hill.
Hill's case, she had access
to the evidence locker.
Right. She follows Rollins,
realizes he might
spring Curtis,
the guy responsible for
her lover's murder.
Love makes you
do crazy things.
You stole the gun from Evidence.
That the best you can do?
No, no, no.
We can do a whole
lot better.
Stanley called
you five times
and left you messages
you never returned.
Told you about
the possibility
that Curtis was innocent,
but you didn't want to hear it,
so Stanley called us.
And then, you called Julien.
NIKKI: How long have you known
that Julien
killed Roger Webster?
(sighs)
Three years ago,
the ACLU brought up
Curtis's case for appeal.
I looked through the files,
I firmed up my testimony...
when I had a suspicion
that Julien
killed Webster
to make his bones
with Daddy.
I confronted Julien.
I looked him right in the eye,
and I got my answer that day.
What about the dead shrink?
All I did
was tell Julien
to stall him
until after the execution.
Killing Stanley,
shooting
at you guys,
was all Julien.
And you're allowing the killer
of the man you love to go free?
The kid is a symptom.
John Curtis is the one
responsible for Roger's death.
And trust me,
Julien is not going free.
He is watching
his father get killed
because he is too much of a
coward to do anything about it.
And guess what?
You guys have to go arrest him,
because you have no choice.
(crowd cheering)
CHARLIE:
All right.
ALAN:
Come on, come on.
D up, D up.
Defense, defense.
- Isosceles, isosceles.
- Keep your hands up-- hands up!
- CHARLIE: Isosce...
- ALAN: Oh, no.
CHARLIE: Four minutes to go, we
shouldn't be trading shots.
We need tighter D.
No, you know
what we need?
- We need a miracle.
- Yeah.
I think I see one.
Huh?
ALAN:
Maybe I've been
drinking too much
Gatorade,
but I think
I see it, too.
(stammering):
But isn't that...
I believe so.
Coach Eppes,
I'd like you to meet
my two new TAs.
That would be
Jordan Farmar
- and Pau Gasol.
- How you doing?
(stammers)
Let me see this
real quick.
CHARLIE: Um...
(clears throat)
Hey, Larry,
you realize
these guys play
for the Lakers?
Yeah, do you think
any of them
- are going to know that?
- Well, yeah.
They're professional
basketball players.
- Oh.
- FARMAR: Hey, yo, Coach,
what's the
pi triangle?
Ah, you like that?
I, uh... I based it
on an algorithm...
Nah, nah.
Actually, looking at it,
it's pretty much the dumbest
thing I've ever seen
in my life.
That's fine.
Uh, what would you
recommend calling?
Have the team run
to one side of the floor.
Let Jordan and me
take care of the rest.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, I like that.
- Sure.
- Th-That's a great plan.
Wh-Why don't
you check in?
You're going to hook us up,
right, Professor?
Absolutely, guys.
All right.
I met them at one
of Coach Jackson's
mandatory
monastery retreats.
Yeah, they must be in touch
with their inner Zen, huh?
What exactly did
you promise them?
- A ride in the space shuttle.
- What?
You can do that?
Are you kidding?
They'll never pass
the height requirement.
Most of us astronauts
are actually very low
to the ground.
(blowing whistle)
All right, Chang,
Nichikawa...
let's hit the bench.
Get out of the game, off the
court. All right, guys.
Here we go.
Oh!
Yeah, that's it.
*
* Cutting belts and magazines
and things you'll never need *
* The mirrors in your room
at night *
* The skies that never fold
* You're sorry
that it matters more *
* But who would ever tell?
* I know you
need to stay above *
* But I swore, I swore,
I swore *
* It's all over your eyes
* There's nothing you can do
* I'm coming out my skin
tonight *
* So tell me
if you're ready or not *
* I'm tired of living
out a lie *
* Sitting here watching
things flying by me *
* And maybe, maybe
* You're gonna save me
* Maybe, maybe
* But I don't know
* I don't think so
* Last night I woke up cold
* And I walked right out
into the dark *
* And 800 reasons why kept
flying into my eyes *
* Wish I could say that I killed
'em dead *
* But they're just much
bigger than I *
* It's all over your eyes
* There's nothing you can do
* I'm coming out my skin
tonight *
* So tell me
if you're ready or not *
* I'm tired of living
out a lie *
* Sitting here watching
things flying by me *
* And maybe, maybe
* You're gonna save me
* Maybe, maybe
* But I don't know
* I don't think so
*
* It's all over your eyes
* There's nothing you can do
* I'm coming out my skin
tonight *
* So tell me
if you're ready or not *
* I'm tired of living
out a lie *
* Sitting here watching
things flying by me *
* And maybe, maybe
* You're gonna save me
* Maybe, maybe
* But I don't know
* I don't think so.